# cs340-portfolio

In order properly write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable, it is important to identify what role each piece of code plays, and use that knowledge to group related pieces together. Related functions get grouped into classes, related classes into modules, and related modules can form fully functioning programs. This grouping is important for two reasons primarily: Problems with the functioning of the code can be more easily traced back to their casue if you know that the errent functionality can only be the work of one module, class, or function based on its behaivior. This grouping structure also aalows code to be reused in other applications. If your package only provides a specific set of functionality, it can be ported over to another project with little to no bloat, and anything project specific can be managed by other parts of the application. For instance, my MongoCRUD package, while wriiten specifically for this project, is general enough that if I had another project requiring me to retrieve data from a Mongo database, I could use it there as well without requiring the same functionality to be written again.

When approaching a problem as a computer scientist, the first step is to fully understand what the client is trying to address with the new piece of software. Fully understanding this will make much less work for the future in terms of rewrites to add or change something you have missed. Once this is fully understood, you can then select tools that (frameworks, libraries, etc.) will best help you complete these tasks. Once you have these peices you can then go to work building the software, knowing you have a concrete plan of how and why you are building the software.

Computer science is a term that encompasses numerous fields, projects, and specializations, so at its most basic, computer science is a discipline in which people take tasks that would otherwwise be done using physical apparatus (paper, spreadsheet, calculator, human being) and digitize it whith the goal of making that task faster, more accurate, and or more efficient. This is important because many of the tasks we take for granted now used to take significantly more time and people power to accomplish, and were prone to mistakes of human error. This allows institutions like companies to more efficiently specialize in the areas they want to focus on as they do not need to put time and effort into tasked that can be accomplished faster digitally.
